This means everlasting life.
That is the Christian hope, isn't it?
Jehovah promises that if we remain faithful,
He will grant us everlasting life,
either in heaven or on earth.
And that hope sustains us, doesn't it?
It is like an anchor that stabilizes us
as we weather the storm of this old system of things
until our hope is realized.
But we also need what we might call short-term hope.
Now, what is that?
We need hope that Jehovah will help us get through the day sometimes,
or to help us so that our current challenge,
our current trial, doesn't swallow us up.
We need that because life can be discouraging at times,
and hope fights discouragement.
So really, we need both aspects of hope, don't we?
So let's talk about hope this morning,
because when we understand clearly what hope is,
then we'll know what to do to keep it strong,
and how it can help us when we feel discouraged.
So first of all, what is hope?
Women in the world view hope simply as naivety
or unrealistic optimism.
One writer put it this way,
most people seem to think that hope
is just a dopey form of denying the truth.
But true hope is not like that, is it?
True hope has a solid basis,
and is very closely related to faith.
So as we define hope,
it's important for us to understand this close relationship
between hope and faith so that we can understand it clearly.
Because on the one hand, the Bible says that faith
is the basis for hope.
But it also says that hope is the basis for our faith.
So how are we to reconcile these things?
First of all, how is faith the basis for our hope?
Turn with me please to the book of Hebrews, chapter 11.
And notice just the first part of Hebrews 11-1.
How is faith the basis for our hope?
Hebrews 11-1 says faith is the assured expectation
of what is hoped for.
So do we see the connection?
Faith provides the basis, the foundation,
the guarantee for our hope.
Faith is what distinguishes true hope
from that naïve, unrealistic optimism we mentioned earlier.
Now the awake illustrated it this way.
It said, when you ask a dear friend for a favor,
you may hope that he will help you out.
Your hope is not without basis
because you have faith in your friend.
You know him well and you have seen him act
with kindness and generosity in the past.
Your faith and hope are closely related,
even interdependent, but they are distinct.
So how does it work for us?
Well we have faith in Jehovah God,
that he cannot lie,
that everything he has ever said in the past
has come true down to the letter.
And so we have sure hope
in his promise of everlasting life
and in his promise to help us endure today.
There is certainty.
Faith strengthens our hope,
but it works the other way as well.
And the Bible indicates that hope
is the basis for our faith.
Now how do we understand this?
Well it turned pleased to Romans chapter four
and notice what verse 18 says about Abraham's example.
Romans 4.18, this is speaking about Jehovah's promise
to Abraham that he would have an heir.
So Romans 4.18, notice it says,
although beyond hope,
yet based on hope, he had faith,
that he would become the father of many nations
according to what had been said,
so your offspring will be.
Based on hope, he had faith.
Now what does this mean really?
Well the watchtower explained it this way.
It said hope is not just incidental to faith,
it is an essential element of faith.
Consider Abraham.
From a human standpoint,
he and his wife Sarah were past childbearing age
when Jehovah promised them an heir.
How did Abraham respond?
Well then it quotes Romans 4.18,
based on hope he had faith.
And the watchtower said,
yes, Abraham's God-given hope gave his faith
that he would have an offspring, a firm foundation.
End quote.
So Abraham believed in Jehovah God's promise.
He had hope in it.
And so that laid a foundation for him to exercise faith
until that hope was realized.
While making application to us,
another watchtower said,
if we truly believe the Christian hope,
our whole life course will be a demonstration of our faith
as was the case with Abraham.
So our hope gives us something to put faith in.
Our hope is that Jehovah will reward us in the future
and will help us with our trials today.
And Jehovah has given us those promises.
We trust in them.
We hope in them.
And so then we can act in faith,
looking forward to their fulfillment.
So hope and faith are closely related,
interdependent, one strengthens the other.
Faith makes our hope stronger because it gives us the basis,
the foundation for our faith.
Hope also feeds our faith
because if we truly believe in Jehovah's promises,
then we have something to put faith in.
And our whole life will be a demonstration of our faith.
But now how can this help us?
How can we make application of this?
Well, understanding what hope is helps us to know
how to cultivate it and how it can help us
to fight discouragement?
And our Christian hope certainly does that, doesn't it?
This means everlasting life.
We have faith in Jehovah
and we hope that this promise will be a reality
and that helps us to endure.
But then we also have a promise
like the one that we love so much
in Isaiah chapter 41, in verse 10.
Isaiah 41, 10, where Jehovah says to us,
do not be afraid for I am with you.
Do not be anxious for I am your God.
I will fortify you.
Yes, I will help you.
I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.
Well, a verse like this, a promise like this
helps us with what we called short term hope.
That is that Jehovah will help us get through the day
that our current trials will not swallow us up.
It helps us to not be so discouraged by our trials.
Well, both aspects of hope really need to remain bright, don't they?
So how do we do that?
How do we keep our hope strong?
Well, what did we learn?
Faith and hope work together, don't they?
And so first of all, we take steps to strengthen our faith.
That is, we do those foundation works that build our faith.
We read God's Word and meditate on it.
We do personal study, prayer, meetings in the ministry.
Because when our faith is strong,
when Jehovah is real to us,
then we will have that solid basis to believe
that Jehovah will live up to his promise to help us.
But also we learn that hope is the basis for our faith.
So knowing that we take the deliberate steps
to keep our hope bright.
And how do we do that?
Turn please to Romans chapter 15.
And notice what verse four says.
Romans 15 four,
for all the things that were written beforehand
were written for our instruction.
So that, skip to the end, we might have hope.
Yes, God's Word gives us hope.
And so we study God's Word with a specific goal
of brightening our hope.
We read God's promises, we visualize them, we make them real,
we pray to Jehovah and look to him for his personal help.
And when our hope is strong,
that Jehovah will help us,
that he will act in our behalf,
then we will act in faith until that hope is realized.
And so on those days where maybe we get a bit discouraged
and are feeling down,
and maybe overwhelmed or even a bit trapped,
think about the promises that Jehovah has made.
This means everlasting life.
Also that Jehovah will help you today.
These are the promises that we have
that have a sure foundation.
We can have faith in them.
We can put our hope in them.
And through faith and hope,
let Jehovah pull you up,
brighten your outlook and endure with joy.
As Isaiah 30, 18 says,
happy are all those keeping an expectation of him.